---
permalink: /
title: "Homepage of NeuroPI"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Dr. WANG Nizhuan is the director of NeuroPI Lab. Currently he is a Research Assistant Professor, Principal Investigator (PI), PhD student and postdoc fellow supervisor (Prof. Dr. Wai Ting Siok Group) of Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong. Before that he was a Research Associate Professor (Prof. Dr. Dinggang Shen Group) at School of Biomedical Engineering, ShanghaiTech University (2022.01-2024.01). Also, he was a full Professor & PI of School of Computer Engineering, the Director of ARtificial Intelligence & Neuro-informatics Engineering (ARINE) Laboratory, and the Head of Department of Software Engineering (2019.08-2021.07), Jiangsu Ocean University from Mar. 2018 to Dec. 2021. In addition, he was a tenure-track Assistant Professor & PI and the Deputy Head (Medical Information Engineering Department) of Shenzhen University (2016.06-2018.03). He received the degrees of B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. from Heilongjiang University (in 2010), Shanghai Maritime University (in 2012 and 2016), respectively. 

Dr. WANG is a senior member of Chinese Biomedical Engineering Society, a member of Chinese Artificial Intelligence Society, a member of Chinese Neuroscience Society, a member of the board of the Shanghai Association for Noetic Science, a member of OHBM, the Program Committee member of 2018 IEEE ICIA, 2022 Chinese Conference on Biometric Recognition (CCBR), 2025 Pacific Asia Conference on Language, Information and Computation (PACLIC), and the 40th AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-2026), the Session Chairs of 2017 IEEE ICIA and 2018 ICIS, the Keynote Speaker of 2020 ICMLCA, the Program Committee Chair and Keynote Speaker of 2021 ICBIC, Keynote Speaker of 2022 ICBIC, Guest Associate Editor of Frontiers in Neuroscience and Review Editor of Frontiers in Human Neuroscience and Frontiers in Radiology. He was awarded “Shanghai Outstanding Master Thesis” in 2014 and “Shanghai Outstanding Graduate” in 2012. At his Ph.D. study stage, he was awarded “China National Scholarship for Distinguished Doctoral Students” twice in 2013 and 2015, respectively. He also won 2018 Finalist Winners of Young Scholar Award of the 5th Symposium of Research and Application on Neuroimage and EEG, the second prize of the 4th Lianyungang Natural Science Outstanding Academic Achievement Award in 2018, the Shanghai Science and Technology Progress Award in 2018, the Excellent Instructor of the National University Computer Ability Challenge Award in 2019, the Excellent Undergraduate Thesis Supervisor of Jiangsu Province Award in 2020 and the Excellent Master Thesis Supervisor of Jiangsu Ocean University in 2023. He was selected as the high-level talents of “Six Talent Peaks” in Jiangsu Province in Sep., 2018, Huaguoshan Mountain Talent Plan - Doctors for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (Innovation) of Lianyungang City in Dec., 2019, and the Vice President of Science and Technology of Jiangsu Province in Aug., 2021. 

His research fields include machine learning and artificial intelligence, brain-machine interface, multimodal signals analysis, medical big data, neurolinguistics and its related disorders, neuroplasticity, brain connectomics, brain diseases, mental health monitoring, natural language processing, etc. He has published over 90 scientific papers in many journals and conferences, i.e., IEEE TMI, J Med Internet Res, J Alzheimer's Dis, IEEE TIM, IEEE TBME, IEEE JBHI, IEEE TNSRE, IEEE Access, Hum Brain Mapp, Magn Reson Imaging, Brain Lang, J Neurolinguistics, Front Neurosci, Front Psychol, AAAI, MICCAI, IEEE ICME, etc. He serves as the reviewer of many top journals such as Nat Comput Sci, Neuroimage, Hum Brain Mapp, IEEE Transactions, MED IMAGE ANAL, etc. 


